# Project Goals #
The aim of this project is to provide a collection of benchmark problems for Data Reconciliation and Gross Error Detection from literature review.

The collection of benckmark problems are organized systematically according to the dificulty and the problem characteristic that is supposed to be tested.

The idea is to incremment the benchmark repository adding new problems and writing the problems in other languages, such as matlab, GAMS, python, C, C++, java and others.

Initially, the benchmark problems are implemented in the free software Scilab (version 5.3 and 5.4) using the sci-ipopt optimization toolbox (interface between Scilab and Ipopt optimization solver), since it is a free software and can be used by anyone without charge.

# Install #
  1. Benchmark problems download

To install the benchmark problems, one should download the latest version of the .zip pack at the "download" tab.

If one is familiar with SVN version control system, it can be "checked out" at the "source" tab, that will have a link to the checkout command.

The zipped version of the benchmark set are reffered by its version and by SVN revision, such as:

dr-ged-benchmarks-0.1.52.zip

dr-ged-benchmarks-verson1.version2.SVNRevision.zip

The correct revision number must be cited in publications, while the version is just a "nickname" of the package.

> 2. Scilab Install

Scilab can be downloaded at http://www.scilab.org/download/5.4.0, it is encouraged to install the latest Scilab version.

> 3. Install some dependecies (optimization, automatic differenciation)

> 3.1 Diffcode automatic differentiation using ATOMS module install in Scilab.

  * In menu applications, ATOMS, search for Diffcode, or navigate by category in Optimization".
  * Select install.

> 3.2 Sci-ipopt

> 3.2.1 This instructions is for **LINUX** users.

Sci-ipopt is Scilab interface to Ipopt solver, it is a little bit tricky to install, since, some modification must be done in the code. You must have a SVN version installed.
  * Check out source at:
```
svn checkout http://scilab-mip.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/sci-ipopt scilab-ipopt
```
  * open file manage\_ipopt\_params.cpp in folder sci-ipopt/sci\_gateway/cpp/
  * comment line line 1116 using a "//"
This line force Sci-ipopt to use always limited memory approximation for the hessian (L-BFGS), so must be commented, since in benchmark we always provide exact hessians.
  * build sci-ipopt:
    * open scilab
    * change the folder to location where sci-ipopt was downloaded
    * type in Scilab console: exec builder.sce
> This command will download, build ipopt and build sci-ipopt.
  * Each time Scilab is started we must load the ipopt library typing in the console:
  * exec path\_to\_sci\_ipopt/loader.sce
we will get the following output:
```
-->// This file is released under the 3-clause BSD license. See COPYING-BSD.
 
-->// Generated by builder.sce: Please, do not edit this file
 
 
-->try
--> getversion("scilab");
-->catch
--> error("Scilab 5.0 or more is required.");
-->end;
 
 
-->exec(get_absolute_file_path("loader.sce")+"etc/"+"sci_ipopt.start");
Start SciIPOpt
	Load macros
	Load gateways
	Load help
	Load demos
```

> 3.2.2 Windows Users

  * It must be installed the Microsoft Visual C 2010 redistributable (can be found at Google).

  * The module sci-ipopt can be download using ATOMS module installer, the problem is that is this compilation only "L-BFGS" version of Hessian is available.

  * In menu applications, ATOMS, search for Diffcode, or navigate by category in "Optimization" -> "General".
  * Select install

In the future I will talk to developers to fix this issue or provide a fixed version on the Downloads tab.

# Problem Organization #

The file structure can be inspected going to Source Tab, that will list a tree in the left. Go to "trunk" and one will find Data Reconciliation or GED (Gross Error Detection)

## Data Reconciliation ##
Data reconciliation have 4 sub folders

  * data\_analysis

> The aim of this problems is to test data filter (filter on the variables before DR is applied), data filter window selection and influence on the dynamics on the DR results. These problems were built using the xcos (simulink version of scilab).

  * error\_in\_variables

> Error in Variables (EVM) is a problem where a DR is carried out together with parameter estimation, the aim of this problem is to test algorithms for this problem class.

  * linear

> Although linear problems are easy to solve in DR, since it have analytical solution, the aim of this problem is to test different objetctive function types, called robust functions. These robust functions can provide results with gross errors removed, however, to do this, some parameters must be tunned in these function. The aim of this class problems is to test these parameters set up.

  * non-linear

> The aim of these problems is to test DR in more complex and non-linear problems. Some features are tested such as:
    * How DR behaves with observable non-measured variables.
    * How DR behaves with non-observable non-measured variables.
    * How DR behaves with models which are approximated by model simplifications.

Each folder has 3 sobfolders:

  * diagrams: a diagram of the process in the .dia and .png format.
  * scilab: the scilab implementation.
  * spreadsheet: a Excel spreadsheet of the data, results or some data handling necessary to run the model.

Data Reconciliation problems description can be found [here](DataReconciliationProblems.md)

## GED (Gross Error Detection) ##

  * linear
  * scilab:
    * 16 Scilab linear test problems (P1-P16).
    * "P7\_test\_sample\_size" and "P8\_test\_sample\_size" - Test the influence of the number of simulation runs.
    * functions: The GED test functions and help funtions.
    * jacobians: The jacobians of 16 problems.
  * spreadsheet:
    * The data for the problems (exact measurements, standard deviations, and results of the Global Test, Measurement Test and Nodal Test).
The diagrams of these problemas are the same as "linear/diagrams" folder.

  * nonlinear

  * scilab:
  * 8 nonlinear problems for GED methods testing.
  * functions: The GED test functions and help funtions.

> The diagrams of these problemas are the same as "nonlinear/diagrams" folder in the data reconciliation set.

  * data\_analysis

> The aim of this problems is to test:

  * Data filter (filter on the variables before DR is applied), data filter window selection and influence on the dynamics on the DR results.
  * The GED techniques with different types of measurement bias, such as constant bias, drifting bias, miscallibration and also leakings.
  * The GED techniques in single and multiple gross errors scenarios.

These problems were built using the xcos (simulink version of scilab).

Each folder has 3 subfolders:

  * diagrams: a diagram of the process in the .dia and .png format.
  * scilab: the scilab implementation.
  * spreadsheet: a Excel spreadsheet of the data, results or some data handling necessary to run the model.

The implementation detailing can be found for [linear](GEDProblems.md), [Data\_Analysis](GEDDataAnalysis.md) and [NonLinear](GEDNonLinear.md) problems.